I have no idea, but I know that
you know, the titles are not copyrightable.
So in Germany, apparently, there's been a very successful book called The Law School of some other nature, and they wanted to change the title.
So I think they will call it The Law School of the Law School of the Law School of some other nature, and they wanted to change the title, so I think they will call it The Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law School of the Law
No, someone has published a book of juvenilia, and I can't remember.
I have to find out what it is.
But it's not like you're going over the Andromeda Spring.
Finished work for you is finished work.
Is that a fair assumption?
Oh, no.
I think it was— The context was the terminal man.
You said you were looking over—
Sometime in the last two years, Valentine reissued all the books.
And at that time, I went through and got, because I have, you know, a list of errors and, you know.
Factual errors.
Yeah.
And you sort of cleaned them up for the final edition.
Right.
Did Spielberg talk to you at all about things that he thought he'd like to see in a sequel at any point?
You know, was there any kind of conference between the two of you?
Well, um,
We had, you know, it's silly to do something that Stephen wouldn't like.
On the other hand, I really feel as though I have to do what I think is the thing to do, and then he'll have to make the movie that he wants to make.
So we had a discussion where I talked to him about what I wanted to do.
and he was, you know, approving at that time.
And was there any thought, you've got Ian Malcolm as the only character who's returning in this sequel.
Was that always, did you always want to have one holdover, or?
No, I was willing to have others, or it just kind of turned out that way.
You certainly have an affection for Ian.
You quote him in one of the epigraphs.
Yeah, and also you need him.
Why do you need him?
Can I interrupt you, please?
Because he's the ironic commentator on you, actually.
Can we get a comment about the kids today, as you've seen them?
They gave you kind of a recognition gasp when you talked about how competitive it was in your day.
How did you feel about this group of kids?
I think they were terrific.
Anything that's about the school today that
It seems, I mean, first of all, I can't tell you, and I've hardly been here, but it seems very similar to me.
You said in response to one of the kids in the earlier session that it takes longer for you to write.
Why is that?
Is it harder?
I don't know.
Does it get harder?
It gets harder, too.
You've done more things.
You make more demands on yourself, I think.
And there's something about... I don't know how you would say it.
My experience is that as I get older, I have a more complicated life experience, and that it's not possible to.
You know, a book like A Case of Me, which I wrote in my 20s, I just don't think that way anymore.
I don't see things that way.
It's a nice, clean,
Now that you've got a little girl, have you thought of writing a children's story at all?
Yes, I thought of it, but I haven't done it.
Seems like a good idea.
Your previous two books, you've had your brushes with the police and the political correctitude that you're now.
Do you expect anything at all out of this?
Any hassles?
When you say you make more demands for yourself as a novelist,
this next book that you're talking about that'll come out maybe in 1996, the idea that it's going to be an instant bestseller, and then it comes out, and how well it compared to your other work.
Robert Rauschenberg once said that he had to do new work in order for people to like his old work.
They could say, well, I don't like the new work, but I like the old work.
No, the publishers were great.
I mean, nobody ever told me they were going to publish too many copies, because I would have, you know, stopped writing right then.
Who can deal with that?
I was horrified before, you know, they kept it from me.
You said you were always, always surprised at the popularity.
Yeah.
Who is your, do you have a perceived audience, a readership that you're writing for?
You know, I imagine it's, I don't know.
No, I just sort of write what interests me.
But I'm surprised when, I was really surprised when a seven-and-a-half-year-old girl asked me to sign her copy of Jurassic Park when she had just finished.
I thought, really?
Did she ask intelligent questions?
Yeah, she'd rather.
So I don't think we know what'll happen.
But when you're actually writing, when the creative process is going,
You don't have a reader in mind?
I don't have a reader in mind, no.
So you have to be happy with it.
Yes, I think I'm the reader in that way.
You said to the kids earlier you hadn't gone to see Congo.
Was it because Kennedy and Marshall were friends of yours and it might be awkward considering the bad reviews that the movie got to sit there and say to them what you really think?
No, because they are friends of mine, and I've talked to them about what I would probably think if I'd seen it.
No, actually what happened was they had previews prior to the release, and I was out of town.
I can't remember where we were, but we were gone.
And then when we came back, we left and went to Hawaii, and the Fisher hadn't been released
I don't know why yet, and we kind of missed it.
That's all.
It just doesn't have anything to do.
I'd like to ask you something as I've traveled.
Halfway through the book, you deal with a section of your father's death that seems to suggest that there might be more you might want to write about.
Have you written at all about that relationship, and will you?
I would like to write more.
And I just haven't gotten it.
I haven't done it.
When you talk about the new school years, you don't seem to allude at all to, perhaps, tension at home.
Was that a difficult period because of that?
I have to sort of go off the record and ask you, or tell you that my mother, who is in her late seventies, as Drea said about
I don't know if I could even mention anything about my dad, so I kind of promise her that I won't talk about it.
I will write eventually, but I prefer Natalie.
I prefer her.
Is there in fact a volume of poetry?
Yeah, and my forthcoming light opera and my ballet, no.
But do you write poetry at all?
I don't.
Okay, but are you working on a play then?
You mentioned you are challenged by the prospect of writing a play.
And we're talking about a play that would be staged, but I would play something on the screen.
You know, I don't want to say too much about the future.
I am interested in that.
Has Hollywood sort of come to you, you know, producers or directors, saying, do you have an outline of a story or something that you'd want to do, not write a book first, but just do something original for the screen?
And have you thought of going back to direct a movie?
Well, I think there's always asking for stories.
And I have thought about directing, but I don't know.
I don't know.
I guess it really depends on the project.
I consider directing disclosure very, for a long time.
And then there seems to be a writing period.
You talked about, I think you were kidding a little bit about running away from reviewers.
No, I wasn't.
Do you really care at this point?
Well, I run away.
I don't like it.
I mean, I don't like negative reviews.
Well, what about positive ones?
Do they mean anything?
But I might open a magazine and see it by accident.
Do you think it's in a way though, I mean, rationally, some way you say to yourself, you can't have it all, you can't have this incredible success and have people like your, have everybody like your stuff at the same time?
Sure, I understand what's going on, but I think
You know, there's a thing beyond the reviews, which is really, by this time in the life of the book, it has nothing to do with it.
I've done mine.
I'm finished.
I've been finished for weeks.
And whether it sells well or badly, whether people like it, whether Stephen likes it, whether the public likes it, whether Newsweek likes it,
It has nothing to do with it.
It's a response.
That's the weight of the boat, you know.
That's back there, churning up the boat.
I'm not there anymore.
And so one of the reasons for going to Japan is to really be orienting myself forward and not to be... Because if I do stay here and pay a lot of attention to the reaction, I will get a threat.
How are you perceived, or do you know, in Japan?
Yeah, I was there a couple years ago, yeah.
They liked me a lot.
I mean, they understand all the arguments and arguments, so I'm better than the Americans, obviously.
They know everything.
Now, I don't know how you feel about people knowing, but why are you generous to dinosaur science?
Why does it matter to you?
It's premature to talk about that.
Okay.
You're not generous.
Jurassic Park was a really clever what-if.
I mean, the premise there was scientific research.
Is this a credible what-if here, you think, with the sequel?
Did you continue along with this?
Well, it certainly went to the, you know, in my way of thinking, there's a small question in the original Jurassic Park that has to do with
technology, and there's a large question in the sequel which has to do with evolution, you know, where the whole enterprise is going, where we're going, how it all works, and whether our behavior matters to that.
It's really, how I think of it is it's written sort of against the implications of the commentary theory,
And the theory that a large comment may have struck at the Unicitation Committee may very well be true.
But I think people will take that information and run with it, and imagine that they'll let them off the hook for certain kinds of behavior now.
And I don't think we should be off the hook.
You do a tremendous amount of research for all of your books.
Did that hold true with this book as well?
Was there a lot of research necessary?
Yeah.
Having to do with evolution, mostly.
very dense and visible.
Somebody like Stuart Coughlin who does chaos and adaptation and all the stuff out of the Santa Fe Institute is dense going for me and it's a triumph of the day.
Did you ever hear from the government of Costa Rica about Jurassic Park?
No.
Although Kathy Kennedy told me that – I've never been to Costa Rica – and Kathy Kennedy told me
about what hotel I stay at when I'm there.
Thank you, everybody.
Very nice.
Do any of you need like photo, bio, cover art stuff?
You guys want any of that?
Thank you very much.
Oh, you're welcome.
Very nice to be here.
Do you want to sign or do you want to sign too?
You know how to.
Yes, they know how to.
They're a white collector.
Yeah.
Actually, the challenge is to not work.
To not work.
Good idea, right?
Yeah.
I'd love to see you.
Do you understand that?
I'm captive.
I'm going to go to Japan.
First trade edition?
The questions were terrific.